I keep hearing people saying you will
say to your AI find me a skiing holiday
and it will provide you with a perfect
skiing holiday and I keep saying people
don't decide like that. When you allow
tech bros too much power over decision-m
along with their running dog lackey in
kind of management consultancy
you're optimizing for something which
may be very very distant from what your
real world customers really care about.
>> What makes Dyson so effective at
advertising? Actually, it's it's not
advertising. It's marketing and it's
customer experience.
>> What's the difference between marketing
and advertising?
>> Advertising is a subordinate part of
marketing. [music]
And do you think we're looking for
efficiency in the wrong place?
>> We usually do. And so, you focus too
heavily on cost reduction and too little
on value creation.
>> What are the rules of good copy? If I
asked you to teach me how to write good
copy, how would you do that?
>> I think a large part of it comes down to
>> [music]
>> So, we first we were talking about this
in the elevator. It was nine years ago.
She back when podcasting wasn't even a
thing.
>> We must be able to dig out the original
content presumably. Yeah.
>> What was it? It was your podcast number
47 or something, was it?
>> Oh, no. I think it was like 16 or
something. Really? It was really low.
We'll have to dig out the number, but uh
it's been a long time since then.
>> Oh, fabulous. Yeah.
>> And and podcasting has exploded. I've
been following Farum Street devotedly.
>> Appreciate that. Um and uh it's always
always interesting very very interesting
on and I mean the whole question of the
decision sciences
uh is I think at the moment completely
critical and actually by the way it'll
be very very interesting with AI because
I keep hearing people saying you will
say to your AI find me a skiing holiday
and it will provide you with the perfect
skiing holiday and I keep saying people
don't decide like that at the very least
you'll have to show them three or four
or five skiing holidays from which they
choose because we can't really choose in
the absence of comparison.
It's what do you see what I mean? It's a
sort of freakish element of free market
capitalism which is we can only like
something if we choose it in preference
to something else.
>> That's interesting. How does that relate
to like a travel agency which would do
that inherently? Like if you said I'm
going to India to chat GPT and you're
like plan it for me versus you go to a
travel agency and you're like I'm going
to India plan it for me. Well among real
estate agents there's apparently a kind
of little bit of a trick which is you
always in before you show someone the
house you want to sell them. You show
them a less appropriate house, ideally
that's slightly more expensive, say, so
that when they see the house that you
want to sell them, it's now clearcut
because they can say, "Ooh, it's a bit
cheaper than the other one and it's got
a conservatory."
>> There's contrast.
>> So there's a kind of decoy effect, a bit
like the famous economist experiment
with a decoy effect. So, you know, well,
you know, one of my interesting
questions is, you know, what interface
will AI deploy to help us make choices
and will it make the mistake that you
could very easily make? If you think
about it, nobody clicked the I'm feeling
lucky button on Google. I think it's
still there, isn't it? It's been there
for years and they've removed it and
found that it slightly reduces the
appeal, but the number of people who
actually click it, i.e., I'm feeling
lucky, take me straight to a single
page, is vanishingly small. people want
to choose between, you know, effectively
above the fold options.
And um so, you know, I'm just intrigued
because it's very very easy, I think,
for people with an economic or tech
background to make assumptions about
what people are trying to do and how
they choose and that we're, you know,
utility maximizers and all this kind of
thing only really to be completely
wrong. Do you think we're looking for
efficiency in the wrong place? We
usually do uh in the sense that when you
pursue efficiency there are quite a few
problems. But when you pursue efficiency
generally you start looking at numerical
or mechanical factors and of course in
the process you disregard psychological
factors where the greater gains may be
found and so you focus too heavily on
cost reduction and too little on value
creation. I mean, one of the greatest
forms of efficiency, by the way, is
employing a human being who's really,
really nice. Now, this is complete
anathema to people in tech who love to
define business processes so as to make
them susceptible to automation. You
know, person X does this. We will take
that function, we will replace it with
algorithm Y.
And it's a very beguiling message
because it usually comes with cost
savings attached. You might have heard
of my thing, the Dorman fallacy. Did you
>> remind
>> I'll remind the viewers and listeners uh
which is simply that you know you you
have a hotel it's a five-star hotel it
has a dormant someone who welcomes
incoming guests
you know a combination of say McKenzie
or Accenture and a tech firm will come
in and say your dorman currently costs
you $X,000 a year we have defined his or
her function as opening the door we will
replace said dorman with automatic door
opening mechanism and an infrared human
detector and we'll save you 30 $40,000 a
year
and then they walk away. They take the
credit for the costsaving
and then two years later, you know, the
hotel's a catastrophe. The rack rates
fallen off a cliff because the dorman
was doing multiple things, many of which
were human and kind of tacit. Security
would be one. You know, there are no
vagrants to sleep in the doorway,
hailing taxis, dealing with luggage,
recognizing regular guests, providing
status to the hotel. There are loads and
loads of value creation components to
that dorman which aren't captured in the
open the door definition.
>> Is that an example of where the costs
are really visible, but the benefits are
>> correct? Yeah. So you it's very very
easy management consulting firms uh if
you if you're in a business and and some
management consultants come in go to the
management and say are they on a gain
share agreement. A gain share agreement
is a management consulting scam where
you claim uh a certain percentage of the
cost savings you identify in year one.
Now as Roger L. Martin, your fellow
Canadian and my own personal Svengali
says, "Any idiot can cut costs." Okay.
What takes real skill is cutting cost in
a way that doesn't destroy value. One of
the things that I don't think is
understood by tech nerds and if I'm
being really cruel, you know, males in
general in in many cases is the extent
to which in evaluating any business or
experience, the human component of it,
the face-to-face component does really
really heavy lifting. And I've got a
lovely story to illustrate this which I
think is fantastic. It's the absolute
perfect example of misalignment of
optimization through quantification
bias. So wonderful man Alex Bachelor
used to be the marketing director of
Royal Mail, but you know similar to what
you have with Canada Post, right? USPS.
>> Mhm. Sorry, not US. Yes, just USPS. And
they couldn't make any sense of the fact
that the brand perception of Royal Mail
bore no relation to service levels. So
there would be districts and areas where
you know every single firstass letter
arrived early the following day
extraordinarily reliable levels of
service and royal mail wasn't
particularly held in affection or
esteem. There were other areas where the
service was frankly a bit ropey and
people seemed to love it. Now, this
obviously upset them because they
thought that all the billions or
certainly hundreds of millions they'd
invested in service quality improvement
should translate into customer
satisfaction and therefore, you know,
some sort of brand voltage.
And someone had a theory and they said,
I think something else is going on. And
the theory which was put to the test and
proved absolutely right was that the
major determinant of whether you liked
royal male or not was whether you liked
your postman or posty technically to be
used the genderneutral term.
>> So people who had a rather unreliable
service but the postman did the odd
favor for them left things in the porch
had a chat with them. Okay, those people
thought it was a brilliant organization
regardless of the actual metrics that
were being pursued. And I think that's
very true in uh any service
organization. You know, you may there's
an electricity company, a gas company, a
water company, a utility. You may
interact with them online 95% of the
time, but the one or two occasions where
you interact by telephone or face to
face disproportionately affect your your
perception of the organization. And I've
argued for quite a time if I were being
completely honest, I've worked in
advertising for 36 years. And if I were
a wholly honest person, uh, without, you
know, fear of annoying my colleagues,
probably 50% of the time, I would advise
to a client, take 10 to 20% of your
marketing budget and spend it on
upgrading the call center. Pay the
people too much. Get the best
practitioners. I think it's perfectly
legitimate. In some organizations, there
should be the very best call center
people should be on six figures
because it makes if you're good and
nice, that's how much difference it
makes. In other words, it more or less
drowns out all your other stuff, all the
other noise. If every time you have a
personal experience, you have a good
experience, then broadly speaking in the
human brain, uh that's a good
organization which I can trust. And when
you think about it, I suddenly realize
why this probably is. We don't really
have much evolved experience in
evaluating postal efficiency, do we?
Okay, we have quart of a million half a
million years of evolved experience in
deciding who to like and trust because
for most of our evolutionary, you know,
existence, that was one of the most fi
five most important questions to get
right. You know, do I trust this person?
You know, will they attack me? Are they
an ally? Are they a foe? Uh if I pay
them money, will they deliver? And so
consequently, I think what we do in our
brains is we use our human judgment as a
proxy.
>> Now, a story to back up that, you
probably remember this, okay? It's in my
book, Alchemy, which is imagine you're
turning up to buy a secondhand car and
you turn up at the house, nondescript
house, and the car is parked outside the
house and you have a look at the car and
you judge the, you know, whether the
pedals are worn and the condition of the
body work, and you have a look around
the car.
and you decide you're interested in
paying, let's say, $5,000 for this car.
So, you go and ring on the doorbell of
the vendor and the door is answered in
one situation
by, for example, a female vicar. Okay?
Could be Catholic. Well, they can't be
Catholic, but you know, Episcopalian,
doesn't really matter. Okay? Female
vicar. And it's a tidy clean house.
At that point, you probably upweight
what you're prepared to pay by 20% or
so. In in a parallel universe, the door
is answered by a guy in his underpants.
In other words, someone with no shame.
>> In that instance, you devalue the car, I
suspect, by about $1,000 or more. In
fact, you may not even buy it at all.
And what we're doing here is we're
effectively
saying, what I'm going to do is a
standin for the question, do I buy the
car, which I don't have the technical
knowledge to answer. I'm going to ask a
supplementary heruristic question which
is do I trust the person who's selling
the car to me?
>> And it's an interesting question. You my
mother didn't know anything about cars,
knew a lot about people. I think she
would very reliably go around buying
cars just through her assessment of the
seller.
And similarly, I think she might do
better than someone with an engineering
qualification who ignored who the seller
was and their personality and character.
Now, as a bit of evidence of this, I
discovered because I've been
investigating this, uh, various real
estate agents have said to me that every
estate agent does their utmost to make
sure that until things are signed and
sealed, the vendor never meets the buyer
and vice versa. And the reason for that
is if one of them doesn't like the
other, they won't buy or sell.
Now, when you think about it, that's
completely unless the person's moving
next door. Obviously, if you're buying a
house from someone who's planning to
move next door and they turn out to be a
psycho, that's relevant information. But
it seems to be the case that if you meet
the the vendor and you basically don't
trust them or think they're a bit
shifty, it doesn't matter what the price
is. It doesn't matter the condition of
the house. Suddenly, you revise your
valuation of the house downwards if you
don't like the person selling it to you.
And so that's one of the reasons why
apparently uh real estate agents will
leave any kind of contact between the
two uh until after at least a survey has
been done and enough commitments taken
place. I once by the way I once didn't
buy a house basically because the guy
was being an about the fridge.
Now the fridge was only worth uh you
know I think 0.2% 2%
uh of the value of the house or 0.02% of
the value of the house. I can't quite
remember. But because he was being a
dick about the fridge, I no longer
trusted him about the house.
>> Yeah.
>> Weirdly, it turned out my instinct was
right because then a friend of ours went
to buy the same house. They got some
separate land registry search done and
found out that a chunk of the garden
actually belonged to Network Rail, not
to the house.
It effectively filed a large part of the
garden. So does that mean I just want to
go back to the the real estate thing for
a second. Does that mean
pretty or attractive real estate agents
would be more successful than
>> It's a really interesting question which
is I think we you know I think we ought
to study these things much more because
the assumption of an economist is that
you need to disintermediate
>> you don't need estate agents we just go
on willow Zillow sorry or right move in
the UK or whatever it is what's the
Canadian equivalent
>> I don't even know
>> cababins.com or whatever okay.com
Yeah, we go. Exactly. You go on one of
those things. You choose the house you
want. You look at it. You then look at
the house, get a survey done, buy the
house. We assume that there is, you
know, this is a purely transactional
exchange.
Maybe in a rational world, that's
exactly what it would be.
>> But for one thing, actually, someone
who's invested 15 years in doing up a
house probably cares about what the
person buying it is going to do to the
house.
So, my parents-in-law, for example, are
fanatical gardeners. Uh, don't get into
this. Seriously, get into something like
crack.
>> We have no worry that I'm going to
>> No worry you're going to become an
enthusiastic.
>> Can barely keep a plant alive.
>> Good, good, good. Okay. Um, but I
guarantee if you went and looked around
their house and placed an offer while
being an expert in botany and generally
quoting people like Gertude Jel and, you
know, prominent garden designers and
Sissinghurst and Da
uh you could you could buy their house
for 200,000 less than if you turned up
and said, "Brilliant, we can knock down
that tree and put in a helipad." Yeah.
>> You know, I think if you said, "We can
knock down that tree and put in a
carting track." Right. I don't think
they'd sell it to you at any price.
>> If you're a founder, you know naming
your startup takes forever. You finally
land on the perfect name only to find
out that Peter from Delaware got to the
first. So, you're stuck with two bad
options. Pay [music] up and fund Peter's
retirement or tack on random words until
your domain looks like a Wi-Fi password.
But after all the time and money spent
on naming, you don't want that. And
thanks [music] to tech domains, you
don't have to. Withte, you get the name
you actually want. It's clean, sharp, no
compromises. [music] It instantly tells
investors and customers that you're
building technology. CES.te, the world's
biggest consumer tech event, uses tech
domain. So does 1x.te
and OpenAI back startup along with
hundreds of thousands [music] of tech
companies worldwide. So don't waste
another minute negotiating. Go to
Godaddy, name, Cloudflare, or wherever
you buy your domains and get your tech
domain today. The holidays are here. If
you're searching for a truly meaningful
gift for someone you care about or maybe
for yourself, I might just have the
perfect idea. Meet Remarkable, the paper
tablet. We're all glued to screens that
demand our constant attention. But
Remarkable is a different kind of
screen. It's an elegantly designed,
distraction-free paper tablet built to
help you think better and focus deeper.
>> [music]
>> It has the simplicity and feel of
writing on paper, but with the power of
technology like organizing all your
notes and ideas into one place and even
converting your handwriting into type
text. With Remarkable, there are no
apps, no social media, and no
notifications, just pure uninterrupted
focus. Choose the device that fits your
needs. the original black and white
remarkable 2, the advanced color display
of Remarkable Paper Pro, or the new
portable Remarkable Paper Pro Move. This
holiday season, give the gift of being
present. [music]
Give the gift of focus. Find the perfect
distractionfree paper tablet at [music]
remarkable.com.
Is that because people want to feel good
about the transaction? And feeling good
is more than maximizing. Richard Thaylor
did I think his most interesting work of
all is actually on the concept of
transaction utility which you may
remember do you remember this
>> a little bit
>> yeah it's in I think it's in nudge and
the famous thought experiment is this
which I find fascinating and I think
it's a really insightful thought
experiment so the idea is you and your
best friend are lying on a beach
somewhere and it's hot and you're very
thirsty and about quarter of a mile down
the beach there's a place that sells ice
cold beer And your friend says to you,
and he asks people to imagine this, your
friend says to you, "I'm off to blank to
buy a beer. Tell me what the maximum
amount you're happy to pay for a beer
is. And if the price they quote falls
below that threshold, okay, I will buy
the beer. And if not, I won't." And he
asked people to imagine what the
threshold would be of what they'd pay
for a beer on a hot day when they were
parched on a beach for a cold beer.
the beer is going to be consumed back
where they're sitting. So the ambiance
or you know the the clientele of the
establishment selling the beer is
irrelevant because you're not going to
consume it there.
And the interesting thing is in one
situation he says there is a boutique
hotel selling chilled beer
>> and in the other situation he says
there's a shack selling cold beer
>> and your price changes
>> and your your your readiness to pay
changes partly in accordance to what you
imagine to be the overheads of the
establishment selling the good. Even
though the
>> even though the the utility of the beer
as distinct from the how good the
transaction feels
>> the actual utility of the cold beer is
identical in both cases. I think that's
a I think that's Richard Thaylor and I
think it's extraordinarily interesting
because I think we can make
you car car salesmen will know this you
know make the transaction feel good make
them feel good when they drive out of
the place that was uh segini right you
you know people are more likely to buy
from you if they like you they're more
likely to uh like you if they trust you
and you have something in common with
them and and you can use all of these
things to manipulate people
unfortunately It's not manipulation. Be
careful on that because No, no, no. We
got to be really care. I think we got to
be really careful here. One, one thing
might be that a genuine cold-blooded
psychopath would intentionally
might find it difficult.
This is a Jeffrey Miller theory that if
you're on a first date, there's an
element where apparently, it's a long
time. I've been married for 30 something
years, but women on a first date will
turn up a bit late or do something a
little bit annoying.
And Miller's theory is that it's a
psychopath detection test. So that if
you
>> Interesting. So, you know, one of the
worst things that can happen to women is
to get into a relationship with someone
who's, you know, psychopathic because
you end up with an empty bank account
and a, you know, and, you know, your
sister's pregnant by her everything go,
you know, everything goes hopelessly
wrong. Someone who's written very
interestingly about this, by the way, is
fabulous woman who writes about
education and absolutely brilliant. I
I'll remember her name in a second, but
she's written quite about this having a
psychopath in the family. Likewise,
Kevin Dutton um has also written about
this about his own father. There are
certain things which you can do which
make it very likely that psychopaths
will out themselves. So the perfect test
might be you bribe the waiter to tip
soup on them.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> And they'll lose it.
>> Or you turn up late and someone like
assuming you're not a psycho because
you're Canadian. So you know that's
probably
>> by default we're not
>> relatively low. We're too polite.
>> You're too polite. Exactly. Yes. It'd be
too tiring to be a psychopath in Canada,
wouldn't it?
>> Soup on me. I'm sorry. I shouldn't have
been sitting here.
>> It's I shouldn't have been here. My
fault. I got in the way of your soup. Uh
the psychopath will lose lose his rag.
>> Um uh and can't control this. And
likewise, if you turn up late, there's a
chance they'll go, "Look, I've been
sitting on my own like an idiot for 15
minutes." Whereas you and I would go,
"Oh, I know. I only just got here
myself. The traffic's terrible."
>> Yeah. We don't fully know, you see, the
value of what is going on in using a
personal quality as a proxy for a
decision which is simply too complicated
to legalize or to reduce to numbers.
Also, it is I'll completely agree in
economic terms, it's suboptimal,
but if it leads to downside variance
reduction, which is what we're really
trying to do. We're not trying to
optimize. We're trying to reduce the
risk of downsize. Yeah. Downside
variance, you know, and that's true in
all sorts of things, investment
strategy, etc. You know, the barbell
approach, you know, first of all, make
sure you don't don't do anything
disastrous. Then after that, try and get
lucky.
>> You you say it like it's a conscious
thing, but I think it's an unconscious
because because if it is conscious, it's
probably a reverse signal that you're
actually a bit uh offkilter. if you're
consciously doing that.
>> In fairness, if if you study social
science matters, you've probably but I
agree with you that the I mean my wife
occasionally gets a bit annoyed with me
because I'll get you know I will
literally apply TALB logic to decisions.
Just to give an example, I always argue
that over 36 years holidays where I've
rented a car are better than holidays
where I haven't. And my argument is you
have more optionality.
See?
>> Oh, interesting. So if you've rented a
car and you find the hotel's a bit meh
or the hotel's not in a great area, you
can just get in the car and go and find
a beach somewhere else and go there
every day. You know, in other words, you
know, so I deploy occasionally we'll
deploy these kind of taleb lines and I,
you know, I'll also say let's fly from
so and so because you know it's the
satisfices.
You you're the one who I remember this
you said you should always fly from the
smallest airport that's convenient for
you. Is that it?
>> Oh, I'm I'm a big small airport thing
person. Okay.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Actually, it's it's kind of
interesting because airports are
schizophrenic in a way because the
clientele of an airport is roughly
speaking a 50/50 mix between people who
fly a hell of a lot and just want to get
through the damn thing as quickly as
they can. And people who only fly once a
year who regard the trip to the airport
as part of the holiday and they love
going through a shopping center and
looking at Hermes outlets or whatever.
And so airports are effectively catering
for two totally disperate groups of
traveler.
>> And you can separate these people in the
security line effectively.
>> You can absolutely you can separate
them. And that's why you know um in a
weird kind of way I think you notice
sometimes that the queue for the
priority lane in security is longer than
the queue for the amateur lane. But
frequent business travelers will still
join the priority lane on the assumption
that the people in front of them are
more competent. I mean there's a George
Clooney up in the air gag about that
right and so it is very interesting
because is it is it irrational
if it's a very reliable mechanism
so all right one example would be I
don't think it I don't think it works
very well nowadays because there are
enough posh spivs around but in the you
know in the 19th century if you were a
posh and respected real estate agent you
had a lot of reputational skin in the
game in the local community both
commercially in people, you know, so you
were highly vulnerable to reputational
damage both commercially and also
socially
>> because you know a small town or a you
know would have been to a large extent a
prestige economy
>> and therefore you know dealing with the
posh local estate agent rather than some
guy who claims to be cheap is not
irrational. you know then that you know
the commission may be higher whatever it
may be but in terms of reputational skin
in the game as insurance against being
you know treated appallingly but and you
know I think there's a kind of weird
thing going on which is that uh you know
the the job of the real estate agent is
to some extent to be the person who
stays behind in the place where the
house is sold to suffer the reputational
consequences of you know of anything
outrageous because the vendor of the
house isn't really reputationally
vulnerable if they're moving 300 miles
away.
>> Mhm.
>> And so, you know, some of the role of
these intermediaries is just highly
complicated.
>> But when I say that, you know, we
fundamentally
seem to attach very very high waiting
to, for example, a call center
experience versus website design. I'm
not suggesting for a second website
design isn't really important. It's it's
almost like there's some experiences
that are sort of additive or subtractive
and then there's some that are
multiplicative
>> like you can multiply by zero or you can
multiply by 10 like a difference in that
one particular factor. There's a there's
a really interesting organization I
can't remember what they're called
online they call this a brand quake.
>> A brand quake is where you do something.
It could be resolving a problem really
well. That would be a very good
opportunity for a brandquake. The person
has a problem. you put quite a lot of
effort and intelligence into solving it
very effectively for them. Um and then
you ring them back to check that the
problem has indeed been solved. Now that
would be an example of something I'll
give you the per okay I'll give you the
perfect story of this. My father uh who
is you know half Scottish and um without
stereotyping anybody was quite
parimonious with what he bought
generally. I mean I'm not I'm not saying
it's genetic by the way. just culturally
he was descended from long lines of
Highland Scots who didn't get where they
were today by you know splashing out and
he had a I think three um when he died
he had three or four Dyson devices which
he'd bought from new in his home he had
one on each floor to save from carrying
them upstairs. Now these are by any
objective measure pretty expensive
vacuum cleaners. Mhm.
>> One of the reasons he was so fanatically
loyal was that Dyson, now interestingly,
I'm going to make a point here, which is
a privately owned company.
>> Mhm.
>> And that and do not do not underestimate
the importance of this. PLC's or um uh
or or companies on the NASDAQ or the New
York Stock Exchange are incentivized to
behave like psychopaths because they're
optimized around short-term
transactional value, not long-term
relationship building.
I think maybe the the generalization is
that like if they're private companies
led by a founder, then they're not run
by the finance department. It's so
interesting. I think about this a lot
where you you have these short-term
optimization and long-term effectiveness
are two completely different.
>> Short-term money off versus long-term
value on.
>> Yeah. Yeah. And so you can there's
always somebody making more money than
you, but you maybe they're cutting
corners, maybe they're doing things that
are unsustainable. And like you said,
you can always save money in the short
term, but do you damage your brand in
life?
>> By the way, my theory is the primary
reason for the success of these private
companies. It the secondary reason is
they look after their consumers better
because they're effectively uh
unwittingly their practitioners in the
customer value movement, not the
shareholder value movement. Well,
Buffett had this saying where his
directive, his letter I guess to all of
his CEOs after he acquired the company
was the only expectation I have for you
is to treat this company as if you and
your family have 100% of your money in
it for 100 years and you can't take it
out.
>> Exactly that. Yeah.
>> And and I think that that approach
enables even in a public company that
enables people to take long-term do the
thing that's optimal. actually they do
something they do something they look
after their customers and there is an
interesting exception to this probably
which is for example Costco which and
actually enterprise rental car is
familyowned isn't it enterprise is
familyowned
>> in the and I've told everybody this in
the IPA advertising effectiveness awards
in the UK my argument is that with the
exception of PNG Dagio unilver marketing
le companies I don't think that plc's
what do you call them in you know
publicly traded
I don't think they can actually do
marketing very well
>> because the requirement for short-term
self-justification
and numbers effectively overrides the
real purpose of marketing which is
investment in long-term customer value.
>> I think this is why generalizing a
little bit but this is why founders
outperform even when they lead public
corporations. They have the same
pressures, the same analysts, the same
but they also are considering posterity
aren't they? What is my legacy? I mean,
it's interesting actually the German car
industry, although their public
companies are sort of familyrun. Aldi
famously, which owns Trader Joe's, is
basically owned by actually two German
families. They had a huge feud, but some
things going on there. One of the things
they do is they look after their staff
better. And I think when you look after
your staff better, the customer notices.
>> Well, this is part of the Costco thing.
So, I mean,
>> Costco. Exactly. But that comes from the
Saul Price line of thinking which when
he started FedMart he sort of outlined
the obligation of our business is we
have a fidiciary relationship with a
customer. Yeah.
>> And Jim Sagal who founded Costco was a
student of Saul Price and later on they
would merge the companies.
>> Of course they did, didn't they? Yes,
you're absolutely right. Yeah.
>> Yeah. And I I think that's interesting
right where you treat your employees
better. Uh nice story from Dyson which
is familyowned. In fact, I think
familyrun companies, this would include
people like um SC Johnson. I think they
should wear a badge. Do you see what I
mean? Just as you have a kite mark on
British
>> Well, Lob Laws is familyowned, isn't it?
For example, in Canada, family,
>> family control McCain family control.
Mhm.
>> So what I was saying about the
advertising effectiveness awards, four
out of the five gold winners, it's only
every two years this award and it's very
very rigorously judged. Four out of the
five winners, namely McCain, your
>> Canadian uh heroes. Um McCain, Yorkshire
Tea, Specs Savers, and Laithweights, a
wine company. Four out of the five
winners, the fifth one was Guinness,
which is sort of a family company in a
sense, although it's owned by a Dio. And
so my point is that I, you know, we
should actually have a kite mark that
allows consumers to prefer to buy from
companies which aren't listed on some
stock exchange somewhere and hence
aren't controlled by the finance
function because they're more
trustworthy.
>> That's an interesting
I don't know if I agree with that, but u
it's interesting to think.
>> Well, is Rogers what's is Rogers still
family controlled? I mean, Canada's
absolutely packed full of Canadian tier.
What about that? Increasingly you get
family controlled but not economically
controlled. So you have like a dual
class.
>> So the western family would control lob
laws to some extent even though they're
not majority shareholder.
>> Well I think if you if you have a
corporation that's hundreds of billions
and you control 10 or 15% of it. You
effectively have control over the
company.
>> Of course. Yeah. Ford Motor Company
falls into that definition. I think the
f you know the family or some there's a
particular class of shares.
>> A lot of dual class coming. But hold on,
I want to go back to Dyson for a sec.
What makes Dyson so effective at
advertising?
>> Actually, it's it's not advertising,
it's marketing and it's customer
experience.
>> What's the difference between marketing
and advertising?
>> Advertising is a subordinate part of
marketing. And uh in many cases, even
though I've worked in advertising for 36
years, I I I want to think of myself
probably unsuccessfully, but I still
aspire to be a marketer, okay? not an
advertising person because advertising
is a useful toolkit available to the
marketer and by the way generally is
pretty effective but Peter Ducker the
purpose of business is to find and keep
a customer profitably uh that's the
purpose of marketing it's to you know to
you know to either create or find uh
customers with whom over time you can
engage in mutually advantageous
relationships to mutual profit that's it
>> so what makes Dyson so good at
marketing?
>> Well, the story I heard from someone who
worked at Dyson for 12 years is that he
was sitting in a presentation, James
Dyson presiding
and they were presenting the call center
sort of efficiency statistics.
By the way, I'm absolutely fanatical
about call centers because I'm terrified
that in an AI age, people will try and
effectively automate them. Uh I think
what you should do instead is make them
slightly smaller but a lot better
>> because I don't think you can substitute
for the human in cases of unusual
problems, special circumstances, empathy
generally. Don't get me wrong, I think
you can get AI empathy. I'm not
suggesting that AI is going to be
completely unempathic, but at some point
it's rather like the equivalent of I
want to speak to the manager. There will
be situations where you want to speak to
a person who can understand your
specific situation and has the power to
intervene to override the normal rules
and regulations to solve your problem
because it is common sensical to do so.
Even if you know our what service level
agreement doesn't normally allow us to
send out a replacement part. In this
case, since your part is faulty,
>> somebody who has the power to do the
right thing
Got it. Exactly. And I think you know I
I think that will ultimately you'll have
to have the human as the last port of
call on that. Also your call center is
the only way you can find out the
problems that people can't solve
anywhere else. Do you see what I mean?
So there was a very smart person I met
at Microsoft who when they uh when they
took over some fairly niche Microsoft
product they put the call center in the
middle of the development team. I mean,
I would argue that the call center of
British Airways should be on the same
floor as the boardroom
because it's where you find out where
you're going wrong with your existing
customers who are the most important
people.
You know, people talk a lot about
product market fit, [music] sales
tactics, or pricing strategy. But the
truth is, success in selling often comes
down to something [music] much simpler,
the system behind the sale. That's why I
use and love Shopay because nobody does
selling better than Shopify. They built
the number one checkout on the planet.
And with Shopay, businesses see up to
50% [music] higher conversions. That's
not a rounding error. That's a game
changer. Attention is scarce. Shopify
helps you capture [music] it and convert
it. If you're building a serious
business, your commerce platform needs
to meet your customers wherever they
are. On your site, in store, in their
feed, or right inside their inbox. The
less they think, the more they buy.
Businesses that sell more, sell on
Shopify. If you're serious about
selling, the tech behind the scenes
matters as much as the product. Upgrade
your business and get the same checkout
that I use. Sign up for your $1 per
month trial period at
shopify.com/nowledgro.
All lowercase. Go to
shopify.com/nowledgroject
to upgrade your selling today.
shopify.com/nowledge
project.
Are you struggling to manage your
projects at work using lots of different
tools for communication, [music] task
management, and scheduling? Doesn't have
to be this hard.
>> [music]
>> Base Camp is the refreshingly
straightforward, reliable project
management platform. It's designed for
small and growing businesses. [music] So
there's none of the complexity you get
with software designed for enterprises.
Complexity kills momentum. Base Camp
clears the path so your [music] team can
actually move. Do away with scattered
emails, endless meetings, and missed
deadlines. With Base [music] Camp,
everything lives in one place. To-do
lists, message boards, chat
conversations, [music] scheduling, and
documents. When information is
scattered, attention is too. [music]
Basec camp brings both back together.
Basec camp's intuitive design ensures
that everyone knows what's happening,
who's responsible, and what's coming
next. My head of operations swears by
this platform [music] and is the first
person to suggest it to anyone. If you
need another decorated referral, you
should call her. Whether you're a small
team or growing business, [music] Base
Camp scales with you. Stop struggling.
Start making progress. Get somewhere
with Base [music] Camp. Sign up for free
at basecamp.com.
>> It's the map territory problem, right?
So often the businesses are run by the
map which is like the spreadsheets, the
volumes, the wait times, the whatever,
but the territory is the customer
calling in and the problem.
>> That's cool, isn't it?
>> The map is not the territory.
>> Yeah. That they're experiencing. And so
if you're not touching reality, you can
get distorted by the map. But I want to
go back. You've said by the way exactly
the same thing Dan Davis did which is
one huge advantage of being a customer
value company not a shareholder value
company is that customers live in the
real world and therefore you are
actually rooted in reality whereas
shareholders by the way not share owners
but the shareholders are principally
interested in justifying their own
existence to their investors and
therefore they're dealing with a highly
artificial construct in terms of
defining the value of a customer But I
think what's best for the shareholders
is what's best for the customer. It's
just the timeline mismatch that people
have. So if your timeline for well it's
incoherent by the way the shareholder
value movement is totally incoherent
because over what time frame which
shareholder is what are you optimizing
for? It's a completely incoherent
nonsense which is very very friendly to
stock market analysts who want a ready
supply of quarterly data so they can
their way out of things. How
valuable it is to people with pensions
is a completely separate matter because
one of the things it does is it prevents
companies from innovating effectively
and it prevents them from investing
properly in customer relationships.
>> Okay. Come back to Dyson. You were
telling me this story. Somebody had
worked there for 12 years.
>> So they were going blah blah blah
average call time blah blah blah average
wait time and it was the standard kind
of call center metrics about effectively
how quickly can we get these people off
the phone. I mean it's a bit more
sophisticated than that. You know, I'm
sure there's some measure of
satisfaction, but it was kind of
evaluating the call center on an
operational efficiency standpoint. And
Dyson basically said, "Stop right now.
You've got this all wrong. The way we
should look at this is we should treat
it as an honor if one of our customers
chooses to get in touch with us, and we
should therefore respond to them
accordingly, as if we're flattered by
the contact, not as if we're bothered by
the interruption or words to that
effect. I'm I'm putting words in his
mouth, but this is roughly speaking what
the person said happened in the meeting.
>> That makes a lot of sense. I mean,
>> and by the way, that's why my father had
four Dyson. Stingy man though he was. I
hope he won't mind me saying this, my
late father. But every time he rang them
up, which might have been only once
every year.
>> Yeah.
>> They did something astonishing and they
were really, really helpful and they
solved the problem and the part arrived
the next day. Sometimes they didn't even
charge for the replacement part and
therefore he completely trusted those
people and therefore was willing to pay
an enormous premium really over other
vacuum cleaners which might have had the
same notional you know effectiveness
precisely because of that trust. There's
so much opportunity here, right? If you
think of you competing in a world where
we're moving to AIdriven call centers,
uh if I took the exact opposite
approach, which is by the way, you
should do both.
>> A really, really good service
organization allows for very streamlined
efficient service for people who know
exactly what they want and extremely emp
empathetic service for people who are
undecided, uncertain or find themselves
in an unusual situation. And so you need
to do both. And that's that's where I
think the tech bros have got it all
wrong because they see the opportunity
of tech as being a one-way street
towards ever greater efficiency,
streamlining. And let's face it, tech
bros are not neurotypical
in terms of what they want from things.
When you allow tech bros too much power
over decision-making along with their
running dog lackey in kind of management
consultancy, you're optimizing for
something which may be very very distant
from what your real world customers
really care about.
>> You're using tech crows as like a
>> No, no, no, no. It's perfectly
reasonable to say that the people who
work in this field and not
representative of the whole human
population. That's a reasonable
assertion.
>> What is it you're representing when you
say tech bro though? Um, anybody in a
tech industry, just as anybody in
advertising, myself included, is
overweighted towards a belief in the
ability of advertising to solve all
problems. And I will truly admit that I
am guilty as charged. Um, however, ad
people don't get that much opportunity
to convince other people of the
rightness of their argument. What has
happened is that in marketing for
example the tech companies the
consulting firms that sell stacks and I
owe a lot of this to a guy called Adel
Bori very interesting self-taught Libyan
marketing writer former boxer Annel Bori
and I coined the phrase technopplasmosis
by analogy with toxopplasmosis
which is tech people and consultants
have taken over the finance department
>> so that the marketing metrics the
finance department has faith in and
demands from marketing are not those
metrics which are most conducive to
building brand and customer value over
time. They're the metrics which are most
conducive to selling tech solutions to
the companies.
>> What are the metrics that are most
>> well it's all about short-term
transactional uh bottom of the funnel um
clickth through you know how can you
shovel money to meta in a slightly more
efficient way. It's not about long-term
value creation at all right now. Now,
don't get me wrong. All that bottom of
the funnel short-term transactional
stuff is very important to get right.
I'm not I'm not disparaging it, but it's
only a third of the game,
>> right?
>> And they're not interested in the other
two/irds of the game because they don't
make money if someone spends money on
their call center or, you know, upgrades
their call center staff or allows the
call center staff to call out.
>> It's sort of like cyber security. It's
seen as a cost. It's a cost.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean,
Bonnie Blue would do really well in this
because she's all about the numbers, not
about the quality of the relationship.
You know, funny enough, she did work in
NHS finance procurement. Ironically, or
no, finance recruitment actually. She
recruited people for N for National
Health Service finance. So, her approach
to sex is merely an extrapolation of
what she learned, I think, recruiting
finance people for the National Health
Service. All all about the quantity, not
about the value creation, the the
relationship. I like this quantification
bias thinking I mean Buffett okay you're
quite rightly your hero um is he was
obsessed with the quality of the
management of companies with whom he
invested wasn't he
>> well I mean I'm obsessed with personal
factors I've read a lot in I think I'm
going to give a nuanced answer here I
don't know the answer so I'll preface
that with that I did read a lot about
what he used to do in the 60s and he
used to hire like private investigators
And what he was trying to determine, I
don't think it was anything about the
person other than does what they say
line up with who they are.
>> And if the answer's yes, I can deal with
that because I know what to expect. And
if the answer's no, if they're they
can't go to work and, you know, claim to
be a penny pincher, because if they go
to work and say they're going to cut
costs, but they're driving around with a
Ferrari or whatever, like this is a
thing that it doesn't line up. And so I
I feel like he was always just trying to
assess the predictability of people if
that makes sense.
>> In other words, by looking at their
consistency
>> consistency did the management
>> do what they said they were going to do.
the balance sheet changes over you know
like he was a very he had a different
emphasis on things than people I think
realize and I think with a lot of his
investments I mean my personal take is
he was looking for predictability and it
wasn't about massive disruption it was
never about things being turned around
he got out of that in the late60s
with diversified refilling was the last
real turnaround situation they sort of
got themselves into they exited quickly
and when They got burned. Did they quite
Well, they didn't really get burned, but
I was talking to Munger about this over
dinner one day and he's like, "We just
realized that we made a mistake. Uh, we
were never going to make a lot of money
in this business and it was highly
competitive and we had no edge and so
they got out as quickly as they could."
Uh, and I think that the predictability
of what he buys, at least his long-term
holdings, like if you look at that, I
think it's really interesting because
it's like you can kind of see it. The
railroad, people are going to be using
the railroad in 50 years. That's a great
example. So, it will be unbelievably
difficult to build a competing one,
>> but you can also you can leverage it if
it's predictable. And leverage is is
this interesting thing where he says
they don't do a lot. And they don't when
you look at the whole company, but on
the railroad, for instance, they'll a
decent amount of debt in the railroad
because they know what the earnings it's
very predictable
the same as the energy where they're
putting a lot of capital they put a lot
of debt in and I talked to this guy in
um Nova Scotia John Bragg and he sort of
did the same thing and so he c he
created Oxford frozen foods he's this
incredible story he's this billionaire
from this small town of 1100 people he
started
>> I've been to Nova Scotia what's it
called Oxford Nova
>> it's called Oxford Nova Scotia and
started not one, not two, but three
multi-billion dollar companies from this
small town of,00 people.
>> Is he still there?
>> He's still there. Yeah. They're like
that.
>> Such a great guy, too. And it was
fascinating to talk to him because he
basically was like, "Look, you know, he
owns North America's largest private
telecommunications company." And he
said, "I wasn't afraid of debt at all."
No.
>> And we levered up massively. We went all
in multiple times acquiring more assets,
acquiring,
>> but if there's something more volatile,
he gets very nervous about the debt.
>> So, he wouldn't do it if there was
volatility. But he also had this thing
where it was so counterintuitive to what
you hear on Wall Street, which is is
like, I don't mind paying more, you
know? I don't mind paying the most. Uh,
and I was like, really, that surprises
me. And he's like, well, a lot of these
things only come up once. I don't get
another shot at it. And if I'm a private
company, I don't have public company
shareholders, uh, and it takes me, you
know, 5 years versus 3 years to get my
money back out of the deal, why do I
care? I'm never going to be offered this
again, and they're not going to build
another one.
>> No.
>> So, when it comes to fiber optic in the
ground, he's like, it's getting harder
and harder to do.
>> What is this company, the Canadian
company in telecoms?
>> Uh, it's East Link Cable Communications.
>> I've heard that. Yeah. And so, but they
not only do they deliver cable to a
large portion of Canada, but they own a
lot of infrastructure that people aren't
aware of. And he's like, well, what
difference does it make? And I've been
chewing on that nugget ever since. And
you know, you can apply this from a
marketing perspective as well, right? If
you if you have a client or go back to
real estate for a sec. I have a client
who's looking at a lakehouse or a cabin
or a cottage or whatever you call them
in in the UK or in the United States and
you get a property and you say my budget
is I don't know say 500,000 and you find
a property that's seven and is it worth
splurging on the $700,000 property or
whatever it is and the answer is is this
like a once in a generation property
that I'm never going to have the shot at
again and if you can frame frame things
>> is also much more likely to be scarce
>> the rarer you get generally
>> and then overpaying you make overpaying
seem rational and in a way it kind of is
rational where it's like well this is
only going to come up once so like I I
have a friend actually going through
this now they're looking at buying a
family cottage and I'm like how do you
think about these things he's like I saw
this one it was perfect but it was a
little more money than I brought this up
having a cottage on a lake on which
yours is the only cottage is the kind of
gold standard for Canadian property.
>> That would be the dream. Have a lot of
lakes. Yes. But I'd always heard that as
a kind of
>> but it's sort of like what what do you
want? If you want a second property, you
want proximity so it's easy to get to.
You want privacy. Uh so there's not a
lot of things around it. And these
things just don't come up very often as
many lakes as we have. I mean the the
prime properties come up maybe once
every five or six years per lake. And
>> and as Kaden said, in the long term,
we're all dead.
>> And we're all dead. So anyway, an
interesting aside here, but when we sat
down, we were talking about high trust
versus low trust societies and
introducing friction. Yeah. I'm
wondering, spend a beat on that for a
second.
>> Well, I met um someone you must
interview, by the way, called Philip K.
Howard, who's written various books
called Life Without Lawyers. He's just
written a book which is coming out right
now called um uh I think it's uh can do
which is restoring the spirit of
American can do and he argues that a
large part of economic decline and
social malaise has come from the
overintrusion of law and regulation into
practices which should properly be left
to subjective human judgment. that we've
created a culture where people are so
afraid of making a subjective decision
that they fall back on often totally
inappropriate rules and regulations. And
there are a whole bunch of people who
are employed not always by the
government just as much by the private
sector who are much more interested in
adherence to uh approved procedure than
they are in quality of outcome.
>> Because you can't get fired for
>> you can't get fired for following the
rules.
>> You can't get me in trouble. Well, you
told me to follow this proced and common
sense would be to opt out at some point
in certain situations and use your brain
and judgment and uh but if I do that if
I have if I do very little parapet
there's no upside
uh and there's considerable uh
reputational risk and and career risk
>> from doing something slightly perverse
and different. But there are a whole
bunch of arguments. First of all, an
awful lot of quality human
decision-making of necessity has to be
tacit and instinctive, not regulatory.
There are various people I think it
might be Michael Palani who says most of
life is like a kaleidoscope. We never
completely encounter the same situation
twice. Mhm.
>> And therefore regulating for the
universal when in fact the great
evolutionary gift of the human brain is
adapting to context
is inherently lawyers love it of course
because they make money out of this. You
know, arguably uh the legal system,
particularly in the United States, has
strayed into all kinds of areas which
were once settled by two humans amicably
discussing something and possibly
finding a creative resolution to to the
trade-off that's replaced by effectively
we will take this to a legal decision
and that starts to infect um
particularly because there's no tor law
reform in the US and that's partly
Because I was told yesterday trial
lawyers are among the largest donors to
the Democratic Party because they resist
any kind of tort law reform. M
>> this has led to things that should be
solved through our evolved human talent
for conflict resolution being solved
through totally inappropriate
application of of uh legal structures to
a situation which is uh in many cases
not really adequately captured by law or
where a legal decision is made which
makes perfect sense within one setting
but which sets a precedent which leads
to ludicrous second order consequences.
Yeah. So for example, if you accept the
fact that a I think has happened in one
of uh Philip K. Howard's cases, someone
demanded that trees were dropped down in
their street because one of their
grandchildren was allergic to the nut
that came off the tree. The argument
would be that if you accept that, which
may seem kind-hearted and uh you know
and and generous within that particular
frame of reference, ultimately you've
opened up the path to widespread
deforestation
because nobody can grow a tree anywhere
to which anybody could claim to be
allergic. There's an interesting case um
in England where someone broke into a
theme park or some park of some kind
and then while drunk dove into a pond
which wasn't really deep and hurt
themselves and then sued
in the lower courts they said there
should have been a notice warning of the
shallow water because you could
reasonably anticipate this problem and
then it went up to the high whatever
whoever it was the lawlords at the time
and they said if you took if you took
this ruling to its uh uh you know
natural consequences you would have no
lakes you know you would have no
swimming you would have no swings you'd
have no playgrounds because everything
would have to be ge around with warnings
about every possible anticipated
negative consequence that could arise
from this part of the environment and so
what what happens is that uh you've
created a kind of idea I suppose where
the legal solution has become the
default
>> uh when it should in fact be the last
resort.
>> What happened to common sense?
>> Well, this is this is the argument being
that that your fellow countrymen, what's
his name? Um Rston Saul, John Rston
Saul. Have you come across him?
>> No.
>> You Canadians totally underrate
yourselves. You know, you produce
wonderful people and you're always
trying to import people like me from the
UK or people from the US. John Rolston
saw wrote this book which I think is
called Voltater's Bastards
>> and he argues that human brains have
evolved with a variety of mental
capabilities only one of which is the
capacity for reason.
>> There's also the capacity for
imagination, creativity, common sense,
you know, etc. We have a whole variety
of different mental mechanisms at our
disposal gifted to us by, you know, a
few million years of evolution as a
social species. And yet we've made
rationality
the gold standard. This is what's weird
about working in advertising, by the
way. And I think it's probably similar
to theoretical physics and it's probably
similar to entrepreneurialism. Okay,
which is what's unusual about those
fields is that rationality is the bronze
standard
>> in advertising. If someone says, you
know, uh this is the problem and you
come up with a completely rational
solution, um people don't go, right,
that's perfect. let's go and do it as
they would do in a finance setting or a
compliance setting. Okay? In most of
decision- making in institutions,
rationality, i.e. quality of
argumentation is the gold standard. In
advertising, if you came up with a
rational ad, people go, "Yeah, it's all
right, but can you do a bit better?" You
know, is there an ad that says the same
thing, but in a more emotionally
engaging way? Is there an ad that says
the same thing in a way that's funny? Is
there an ad that says this in a way
people will remember or will act on? So
what is funny about being an advertising
creative and you know I spent 20 years
of my life either in or managing those
departments is you know the rational
solution is where you start
>> you use it as a springboard to something
better. There's a famous quote, you
know, fascinatingly from Neil Spore who
said, "You're not thinking, you are
merely being logical." Isn't it? I think
you'll know that
>> he was an interesting guy, wasn't he? In
terms of his because he also was the
person who said the opposite of a good
idea, you know, in boring physics, the
opposite of a good idea is wrong, but in
high level physics, the opposite of a
good idea might be another good idea.
>> Mhm.
>> Yeah. What can we learn from marketing
from the madmen era that's still true
today? Uh
>> I think there was an understanding then
and the remuneration of agencies
respected this because you were paid on
commission. So if you had a big idea and
you came up with a campaign and the
client spent millions running the
campaign, you made money from that
campaign for years after you'd conceived
it. So it was rather like having
royalties on a book.
>> Oh, okay.
>> We didn't realize that at the time. Then
media independence came along and so we
had to be paid by the hour like lawyers
and management consultants and we've
never recovered because it's a
catastrophic way to be paid and the
reason it's a catastrophic way to be
paid my argument is that marketing is
actually fat tailed
so is innovation
R&D pharmaceutical research science okay
in other words 5 to 10% of what you do
delivers perhaps 110% of the value and
therefore paying people by the power and
demanding that every quantum of effort
has to be matched to a quantum of value
creation in some neat proportion.
This is so the way market never mind
advertising that okay right let's look
at the whole of marketing as a
discipline within an organization of
which advertising is not a not
necessarily very important part you know
for a lot of organizations it may be you
know relatively trivial what they
actually spend on bought communication
on the other hand uh you know how you
design your reception or you know
whatever you know that's still affected
the application of psychology to value
creation let's say you have a brilliant
idea
and the value of that idea last goes on
for 10 years. And I've seen this happen
all the time. The agency, let's say an
agency had the idea. It may well have
been the client who had that idea. They
are held responsible for every single
unit of cost they incur
>> year by year by year by year. You cannot
offset any of those costs against the
value you created in 2023 by having a
huge idea. Let me give you an example.
There's an enormous idea for a very
large enormous American, let's say,
fastmoving consumer goods company.
There's an idea conceived by Oglev
Australia. It has made that company in
excess of a billion dollars in the last
10 years. It's still running. It runs in
something like a hundred markets. Still
useful today. For that idea, the agency
in Australia got paid $350,000
Australian dollars. Or rather, that's
what they made from it. So in other
words, you have a billion dollar idea,
you get to buy a small flat in a crap
part of Sydney. Now what I'm saying is
that this is not me bleing about the
advertising industry. It's saying that
anything like R&D or marketing which is
fat tailed, in other words, a small
percentage of what you do, it's Jeff
Bezos's point about in business, you
know, in baseball you can only score
four, in business you can score a
thousand. In marketing
when you score a thousand which and the
purpose half the purpose of marketing is
not operational gradual incremental
improvement it's finding another way to
hit the ball out of the park and score
100. If you cannot claim the credit for
that except to the extent that it
delivers value in the quarter in which
you had the idea or the financial year
in which you had the idea you are
underfunding your marketing effort. So,
it's like saying to imagine if you went
to JK Rowling and said, "Yep, you can
have the royalties on the Harry Potter
books, but only on the first edition."
And consequently, long-term marketing
ideas when you're paid by the hour or
when you're evaluated by the quarter as
marketers would be. Now, you wouldn't go
into a pharmaceutical research company
and said, "You invent a blockbuster drug
this week." No. Or you're all fired. You
accept the fact that you spend a load of
money effectively. Okay, this is the
brutal truth. Okay, you don't you don't
find entrepreneurs in chess clubs. You
find entrepreneurs in casinos. They're
playing poker. They're playing bat gam.
You know, they're playing games of
chance with an occasional very high
payoff. And a lot of life is exactly
like that, but you don't know where the
huge payoff's going to come in advance.
The people who are running these
organizations for the benefit of
financial predictability are trying to
make it chess. They're trying to turn it
into a reductionist game where the most
you can score is one for a win.
>> They're trying to put a ceiling on.
>> They're trying effectively to to to
pretend it's a high variance mechanis
low sorry a low variance mechanistic
predictable process.
>> 50 50% of your effort in life once
you've ensured the fact that you're not
going to starve to death, die, etc. You
know, you've looked after your children
should be attempts to get lucky. In
other words, what Nim would say, I love
this phrase, uh, increasing your surface
area exposure to posit to positive
upside optionality. You know, finding
opportunity. But hold on for one sec. I
want to go back to this. I want to think
about this out loud here. And maybe I'm
wrong. With a book, it's great. I write
a book once, I can sell it for the next
hundred years, assuming I've earned it
on my road.
>> Yeah. If you have a great marketing idea
which continues to add value for the
next 15 years, the difference some of
that credit should be offset against
your current marketing costs. Fair. The
difference is marketing also can go the
other way and and like Jaguar perhaps or
Cracker Barrel, I don't know if you
followed the So you can create negative
value. It's not like the baseline is
zero and there's only upside and the
upside is like one to 1 million. You can
actually destroy a company through
marketing.
>> The case is okay.
>> And advertising.
>> Uh some of those I'm going to defend the
companies.
>> Oh, please do. Yeah. Yeah.
>> Because in the case of Bud Light,
>> are you defending Bud Light? I want to
hear this.
>> Yeah. No, no, no. They could not have
necessarily anticipated that because it
was confected outrage. Look, I'm
politically on the right. Okay. I get
just as angry from confected outrage on
the on the right, which is, "Oh, they've
gone woke
when, you know, you're merely showing,
you know, a mix of ethnic groups you're
advertising or something. This is bull,
right?" And and the right do it and the
left do it. Uh there's confected outrage
on the left, I would argue, about um
American Eagle, and it's confected
outrage on the right. It's done for
signaling purposes by a very narrow
group of people. Do those cases actually
damage the business? I don't know the
figures. Gillette did. There was an
extremely Now, this wasn't confected
outrage because Gillette ran an
advertisement. They realized they had to
move on perhaps from the best a man can
get despite the fact obviously that
their customer base is overwhelmingly
male for fairly obvious reasons. And
they produced an ad which I would argue
and even my wife would argue was
needlessly um insulting towards men in
that it conflated the me too movement
with barbecuing.
Okay. In other words, it seemed to take
a definition of toxic masculinity which
went which went the whole spectrum from
things which all rightinking men would
quite rightly condemn to things which
for example two boys having a you know a
small scrap on a patch of grass which
all primates play fight. It's not, you
know, don't get me wrong, sorry. If, you
know, there's a kid wailing on another
kid with a plank of wood, uh, you know,
I'll be quick to condemn it, but I'm not
totally, you know, the odd play fighting
thing, barbecuing, I don't think is
particularly objectionable. And that was
a case where it was almost a kind of act
of deliberate affronttery to your core
target audience. The Bud Light thing, to
put it in context, was a influencer
marketing campaign of which most people
in the company were probably unaware
where they sent personalized caners of
Bud Light to a variety of different uh
influencers, one of whom was Dylan
Mulvaney. Um, now I've got to confess
about this as a Brit, you're Canadian.
>> Mhm.
>> The gender thing isn't quite the flash
point in the UK or Canada as it is in
the United States. Did you know for
example um that when it came out I found
this quite interesting in Britain we've
had pantomime for 200 years you know men
dressing up as women you know women
dressing up as attractive women dressing
up as young boys Shakespeare you know
crossdressing some like it hot was a
highly controversial film with all the
studios in the United States when it
came out because it involved men
dressing up as women now in the UK my
grandmother went to see it she was a
sort of conservative woman in a Welsh
provincial It would not have occurred to
her literally that there was anything
controversial about this at all. It was
simply funny.
>> I think what maybe has changed is the
meaning we ascribed to it.
>> Well, in this case, my argument was
okay. All it was they hadn't made Dylan
Mulvaney the face of Bud Light,
>> right?
>> You know, and I think creating these
cultural flash points through confected
outrage is something to be disparaged
when the rights do it and when the left
do it. I don't I I think it's equally I
think it's equally absurd because you
have in any communication you have to
understand context and the intention of
the person producing the communication.
Now in the case of Jaguar
they wanted it to look unlike a I would
argue I mean I was talking to Rick Rubin
who was in Hawaii and he'd heard about
the Jaguar ad the it wasn't an ad by the
way. Do you know that don't you? It
never ran as an advertisement. It was a
brand film they showed at the launch of
the car. And then I had a right-wing
podcast uh in the UK going, you know, it
utters the most out, you know, um
outrageous anti-conservative sentiment,
which is copy nothing. Copy nothing was
the exhortation of Sir William Lions who
founded Jaguar. You know, I I I think he
said it in 1932. He was the original
founder of the car company. You've also
got to understand their position. What
are they trying to do? So, so I'm just
explaining this just in wider in wider
context, which is
>> they fundamentally made a mistake. I
can't blame them for doing it because we
all do this. We all benchmark against
our most obvious competitor.
>> Don't benchmark against your most
obvious competitor. All you'll do is
make make yourself a copy of them. And
Jaguar was always trying to compete
head-to-head with BMW, Mercedes, and
Audi. Mhm.
>> And bluntly put, because of the scale of
those entities, it was always going to
lose. Because if you're the kind of
person who's happy to buy a BMW, an
Audi, or a Mercedes, and you're also
happy to buy a Jaguar, you'll probably
end up buying an Audi, a Mercedes, or a
BMW simply to, you know, because of
scale, winner takes all effects, all
manner of other things. So, if Jaguar
needs to survive in the electric car
age, making its cars in the UK, which as
a Jaguar lover, I ideally want them to
continue to do, they've got to find a
different kind of target audience rather
than benchmarking themselves against uh,
you know, companies which have gains to
scale and a whole load of advantages
they can't replicate. And so going for
what you might call the car of choice of
the wealthy younger creative class.
Reasonable bet.
>> It's a reasonable bet. Okay. I work in
advertising. Okay. I'm I'm massive car
lover. I really really like for example
the Chris Bangal era BMWs I thought were
magnificent. I really really like those
because can't buy one. And the reason is
because part of my shtick, okay, is
being a bit left field. And if I drive
around in an Audi, it kind of screams I
work in financial services,
>> right?
>> Okay. You know, I aspire to managerial
roles. Do you see what I mean?
>> Yeah.
>> And so, you know, I've always bought
slightly weird cars
there. I don't know. I've been fed to
know what you have. What What do you
have back in Canada? I got to ask.
>> Uh, I have a Tesla.
>> Oh, fine. You see that? You know, did
you do you have a sticker on it that
says I bought this before Elon went mad
or anything like that so that Canadians
don't key your car? It's
>> been keyed three times.
>> It's been keyed by and uh run into by uh
somebody I can only assume intentionally
uh in the past.
>> Ota.
>> Oh yeah. In the past.
>> Well, Otawa is this like hot bed of Elon
haters. Is it?
>> It's interesting because my mom got me
one of those stickers and I I was like,
I don't have a problem with Elon. like I
don't I don't understand this. I'm not
going to put that on my car. And you I
want to relate this to sort of
evolution.
>> I agree. It's a little like um biting
the hand that feeds you, isn't it?
>> Well, it's also like going back to the
Jaguar butt. We can tie these two things
together, right? And I think we need
>> a variation in approaches. And the the
point of this is like we need more
people like Elon, not fewer in the
world. Whether you agree with him or
not, this is how society progresses. We
need differences. We have an environment
and people thrive or don't thrive in
that environment. Ideally, we have some
sort of social safety net uh to catch
people um if they don't succeed.
>> But not ideally, that's essentially in
any civilized society.
>> And and so Jaguar the same thing.
They're they're taking a bat as a
company. They're being different. They
occupy an environment and manage.
>> If you think about it, they survive as
Land Rover, Range Rover because they
have effectively created the category
they dominate,
>> right? So I want more variety.
>> No. Oh right. This is this is where your
wonderful compatriate Rodri Martin,
praise be upon him, okay, makes this
point that um economists have this
fantasy of the world of companies in
direct competition driving down price
and increasing efficiency while
supplying the same thing which is based
on a false premise that people know what
they want to begin with. Now I would
argue when you don't create
differentiation,
everybody suffers. Now let me explain
because if you have a differentiated car
market, it makes the car market more
valuable overall to investors because uh
you know there is more variety within
the market. It benefits the companies
because they can achieve a reasonable
profit on what they do because it has
some degree of scarcity or uniqueness
and it benefits the consumer because the
consumer ends up with more choice. What
often happens is you have something like
a regulated telecoms market or you have
a regulated insurance market and
everybody is forced to compete along the
same dimension and what you end up with
is just red red ocean competition and
nobody wins.
>> But where I was going with all of this
is that going back to the Madman era and
how you can create a billion dollar uh
profit for the company and only get paid
like 300k.
>> You need to watch that. Yeah. And I
think I've never actually watched MMA,
but I think the the point that I was
getting at is you can also create
negative value and like how do you
ascribe for the negative value?
>> I can speak for Gillette where the
evidence was that it was and by the way
the research showed it was deeply
problematic with a large swave of
people. Has a American Eagle suffered? I
doubt it. In some ways you could argue
it's an ingenious marketing strategy
which is that you press the hot buttons
of 1% of the population. So they then
repeat your message accompanied by their
own signaling outrage. Meanwhile, you
get free media coverage practically
everywhere.
>> But maybe I'm naive.
>> I mean, the media budget for that Jaguar
film you realize was zero.
>> Maybe I'm naive. Like the Sydney Sweeney
American Eagle thing, I think we're just
going back to normal, aren't we? and
like we've we've sort of deviated in the
last few years and and that seems more
maybe it's akin to my time and my frame
and like when I was brought up, but like
nothing about that struck me as rage or
um on either side. Like when I looked at
that, I was like, "Oh, great." It's just
like an advertisement. It's a pup.
>> Yeah. Like it just I didn't even think
more I didn't think there was more to
it. I just saw, oh, this is great.
Right. There there's a kind of weird
sensitivity signaling which generally
has nothing to do with the groups you
are trying to protect which is just it's
sometimes called a purity spiral where
you effectively signal your moral or
political purity by signaling
extraordinary heightened sensitivity to
anything that might conceivably offend
someone else. even if the group on whose
behalf you claim to be campaigning is
completely unconcerned by it.
>> But like the opposite of her, whatever
that would be, it would not cause rage
in me either. It would just I wouldn't I
wouldn't even think about the brand, you
know? It would just be like another
thing that flies by. I don't understand
why we're so hair triggered at that this
moment in time unlike maybe never
before. way you have to really watch it
in um and I've I've noticed this in
certain people on the right which is I
think it's fundamentally dangerous to
invest too much of your own identity in
a political standpoint
to the point where I I've seen it in
people both sides become effectively
deranged. Now, you could say that's
that's the effect of the people who
attack them and that uh the derangement
wouldn't happen and wouldn't be
necessary in a different kind of media
environment. What's different about
today? Why is everybody on such a hair
trigger? Why do we identify so strongly
with extremes? I'm going to say actually
that everybody always blames social
media.
I would argue that the mainstream media,
it is always in your interest, and this
is a problem in journalism. It's always
in your interest to provoke a fight
because then you have something to
cover. Nobody's interested in reading
about peace and harmony. They're
interested in reading about discord and
argument and dispute. By the way, that's
an evolutionary tendency. If we're
sitting here and we hear we heard a
fight break out across the street, we'd
be there with our noses pressed up
against the glass. Okay? If if we heard,
you know, people amicably discussing the
weather, we wouldn't pay it the
slightest attention. you know, where
where we we've fundamentally evolved to
pay attention to uh conflict
>> and so the only difference is the tools
available to us
>> and the extent to which social media
provide the mainstream media with the
tool. I mean in 1975 if you wanted to
find someone who was outraged by the the
Sydney Sweeney advertisement, you'd
actually have to do some leg work,
wouldn't you? I don't think you now now
it's one search on X or uh you know blue
sky or whatever it may be. Uh willful
misunderstanding is another thing that
you know is another technique which is
deployed. It's perfectly obvious. I mean
I you know it's perfectly obvious that
that had is not intended to mean Sydney
Sweeney is the flower of Aryan
womanhood. Okay, it's not you know it's
not that. Now in a perfect world had
they had more budget maybe they would
have had three celebrities of different
different ethnicities or genders or
whatever it may be um but nonetheless
this business where you effectively
effect to be outraged by things well
I'll give you a lovely story about this
I always forget which is I don't think
phrases like uncomfortable
or offended or inappropriate
you know you know you that you get these
things where you know your presence here
people would find it you know would feel
unsafe triggering okay they don't really
belong in the public sphere
>> you know they're matters which for you
know a few hundred thousand years we
simply sorted out amongst ourselves we
didn't have we didn't make recourse to
the university dean or the supreme court
in cases where we were bothered by
things because you accepted that's just
part of life and we were allowed then
creatively to find ways to get along
without recourse to some sort of
speurious rule book. Consequently, you
know, I don't I don't think those
phrases like in I mean, this is one of
the worst things that happens. You say,
you know, was accused someone is
described in the newspaper as being
accused of inappropriate behavior. Now,
I now have no idea. I mean, I've
literally had to book people for
speaking engagements. You go on their
Wikipedia page and it says accused of
inappropriate behavior. Now, I have no
idea whether they're the next Epstein,
right? or whether they told a knockk
knockock joke that two people found
unpleasant. Do you have them in Canada?
Knock knock. At least I'm not being
complet because otherwise I could have
been misunderstood there. You see, but
you I I now have no idea. Literally no
idea whether the person's guilty of some
utterly trivial infraction which would
only have offended 0.01% of the
population
>> or they're not guilty at all. somebody
just made up an accusation and the
accusation became the framing and the
framing became the narrative.
>> So it strikes me as highly problematic
in the UK. I'm not one of these people,
by the way. I'm not, you know, I'm not
JD Vance. I don't believe that free
speech is completely dead in the UK. But
there are worrying signs where people
who make a complaint on the basis that
they found something disturbing
can then call in the that's not a police
matter unless it involves a direct
threat of physical action.
>> Yeah. I mean simply being disqued by
something can't be.
>> But we we've gotten to this point and
you know to varying degrees in varying
different countries where you know the
we don't tolerate people who have
different ideas than us and we saw this
last week play out in the US with the
assassination of Charlie Kirk. And so
whether you agree or disagree with him
and his views,
>> I have to confess I was only dimly aware
of his existence beforehand perhaps
because I'm a Brit. Uh I mean I I I'd
heard the name and I knew he
>> we see the same thing in Canada with
sort of our politics, right? I imagine
you see in the US too where media is
definitely uh intolerable of one
position and more favorable of the
other.
You can analyze this. You can study it.
You could do a PhD on this. It exists.
And it seems like we're just not capable
of having to think for ourselves. And
we're not capable of having reason
discussion on things and and being
friends with people. It used to be back
in the the 30s, the 40s, the the
Churchill era, both sides of the the
house or would talk to each other. They
would have dinner together. They would
find common ground. How many of these
people who are hypers sensitized on one
side or the other, how many of them
really exist? By the way, don't include
things like one of the things I find
really disturbing is the practice of the
media describing people who say oppose
uncontrolled immigration and describe
them as a far-right group.
>> Oh, and well, because that is that you
know you normal people are described as
far right now. So, so in other words, if
if you literally take an opinion which
may may be held, by the way, from my own
personal standpoint, I'm pretty
benignely disposed to immigration uh
within reason. However, I also believe
in democracy and if a significant
proportion of the population disagrees
with me, I owe it to them to hear them
out because their circumstances are
different to my own. You know, I might
be beneficially, you know, one of the
slightly annoying things is people who
are very rich people who are pro-
immigration because they say their
Polish housekeeper is wonderful. Well,
that is an experience of immigration
which is not shared perhaps by any means
by the other 98% of people. I'm
conscious of the fact that depending on
where you are, you see the world
differently. That's inevitable. And the
job of a democracy is to accept uh the
majority opinion even when it goes
against your own. And so describing and
vilifying an opinion which is held by a
fairly large weight of the population
regardless by the way the rights and
wrongs of the whole thing. I'm not even
getting into this now. Um it's deeply
dangerous because people go well if that
makes me far right it looks like I'm far
right. I mean, insulting, calling people
deplorables is a terrible, terrible way
of getting deplorables to gang up
against you and then people don't speak
up. They tell their opinions and then
you lose debate and you lose and then
you lose perspective because you don't
hear the other side of it. So, you think
there is no other side and anybody who
believes that might be an idiot like
>> give an example on this debate which
changed my mind a bit. a very very good
Oxford economist called Paul Collier
wrote this economically balanced
assessment of general migration and made
some you know pointed out that on both
sides of what you might call the balance
sheet
it was immeasurably more complicated for
example if Nigeria trains doctors who
then immediately hoof it to the United
States
how how is that possibly a good thing
overall in that a poor country trains
doctors who move to a rich country which
arguably has enough doctors from a
country which doesn't have enough.
That's not you know you have to
>> depends on how you frame it right
because another way to look at that and
I'm not arguing for this by any stretch
is that they come here they make a lot
of money and they send that money home
to their families.
>> I agree all Collier said is look this is
inordinately more complicated.
>> Yeah. Um it is
>> one of the things he said is the right
for example of recent immigrants to
family reunification is a bit dubious
because you're giving someone a right
which the native population do not have.
So I can't pick five Canadians and get
them British citizenship. You see
>> I I've yet to meet somebody who totally
disagrees with all immigration. It's a
matter of what reasonable immigration
looks like
>> and also assimilation. It should be
decided by someone other than human
rights lawyers. Oh yeah, definitely.
>> I would probably agree because you know
fundamentally as a as a branch of the
law that is not a partial
>> entity because human rights lawyers it
isn't you you know that great phrase of
is it Sinclair Lewis or someone which is
uh it is difficult to get someone to
disbelieve something when their salary
is dependent on believing it. And just
as management consultants have a huge
incentive to sell in digital
transformation programs to their clients
and therefore we have a culture in
business which more or less doesn't
assumes that any money spent on tech is
money well spent. They don't look at the
opportunity cost. Should we have a
better call sector? Buffett and Mer had
a good way to sum this up which is never
ask your barber if you need haircut.
Yeah. And it's the same thing a human
rights lawyer. It is in their interests
for human rights to capture a greater
and greater part of public discourse at
the expense of democratic bodies.
And consequently, it's, you know, you're
not really in the you're not really in
the dispensation of justice. You're in
the amplification of grievance business.
It's very different.
>> I want to switch gears a little bit. My
kids had a question for you.
>> Oh, good. Okay. Go on. A few years ago,
we were in Italy on vacation and we
walked into a Louis Vuitton store and
they saw a purse and they were asking me
what makes somebody spend I think it was
I don't know 20 or 30,000 euros on a
purse and I had gave them an answer but
they wanted me to ask you some of those
things by the way weirdly you can resell
them for more than the purchase price
because in some cases the Kelly bag for
example
they won't sell it to you until you've
been a fairly reliable customer of
theirs for some time and therefore the
price on eBay is higher than the price
they charge in the store. Um uh so so by
the way it's not it it's not in it's
complicated but they're vellin goods
effectively a large proportion of goods
depend for their value on being
perceived to be expensive.
>> So what goes into that though because
they were we're all we're all guilty of
it to a degree. No, but they were
talking about the store and the service
and the lighting.
>> My wife just came back from, you know,
somewhere where there was quite a nice
night dress in Harrods, I think it was
in London, which was £1,800.
>> Okay.
>> Now, you have to remember that there are
quite a lot of goods where the purpose
of the good emotionally is to say, well,
let's take the endline. I often think
there's a lot of hidden truth in
advertising endlines. The L'Oreal
endline because I'm worth it.
Some part of that is the person
advertising to themsself. So, you know,
when you drive around in your brand new
blinged up Tesla, albeit slightly keyed,
okay, you're not actually doing it to
pick up chicks, I imagine. I mean, maybe
I have no idea what you do in your
private time. Okay, but if you let's say
you bought a bright red sports car, yes,
one purpose of it in a in a particular
group would probably be, you know, I
visibly have resources to spare.
But quite a large part of this stuff is
actually signaling to ourselves,
which is, you know, uh because I'm worth
it. I deserve this. I'm the kind of
person who drives this. Uh it provides
me with a kind of ego boost, a sense of
reassurance, whatever it may be. And so
consequently, if you think about part of
the reason why bags became very
expensive is that very high-end clothing
can only be worn in quite specific
situations. Mhm.
>> On the other hand, a bag like a man's
watch can be worn every day. So, one of
the reasons why those things are
expensive is to use a very interesting
measure, cost per entertainment hour. I
wear a Casio G-Shock. I think it was 130
quid because I' actually decided as a
gross rationalist that the best watch is
one that's cheap enough to wear in the
shower so you don't have to take the
thing off every day.
But Paul Dolan, Professor Paul Dolan,
who's the behavioral scientist at London
School of Economics, I met him when I
first met him. I said, "I'm intrigued
because you've worked with Daniel
Carnean on happiness and I noticed you
wear a Rolex."
>> Mhm. And he said, "No, no." He said,
"It's extremely good value for money
because it makes me feel good every
single day when I put it on and in 20
years time I'll give it to my son." 21
years time, I don't know how old his son
was, I'll pass it on to my son who can
enjoy exactly the same thing. So, as a
repository of meaning.
>> Oh, interesting.
>> Now, cost per entertainment hour is
quite interesting because it was used to
explain the fact that relatively poor
young people will spend 90 $100 on a
computer game, which seems like a lot of
money until you realize that they might
play that game for
>> Oh, yeah.
>> 80 90 100 hours.
>> Yeah.
>> Or more.
>> Super cheap.
>> So, it's super cheap. I mean, compared
to going to the cinema where it's $10
per entertainment hour, more if you buy
popcorn. So, it's quite an interesting
metric. I mean, one of the things that
used to make me really annoyed in
Britain was when people, rich people got
really snarky about poor people having
large televisions. And I said, "Look,
you if you haven't got much money, TV is
a source of long-term entertainment is
spectacularly cheap." Okay? So having a
really good television on which to enjoy
it because you're not going to go
Porsche racing at the weekend, you know,
you're not you're not going to be there,
you know, effectively going to Glindborn
or popping up to the bloody, you know,
Metropolitan Opera. Therefore, having a
really large television is a perfectly
rational decision.
>> Go deeper on this truth and endline
signaling to ourselves when we purchase
something. Jeffrey Miller is
fundamentally right that a lot of what
we're doing is to advertise ourselves to
other people and the mating mind and
spent two books I think you really
should read because they're extremely
good that a lot of a third book by my
compatriate will store the status game
which you must know you read it
fantastic I've heard of it
>> and I have to admit I'm going to the
only caveat I give to reading these
books a bit like reading uh the selfish
gene is when you read them, you are at,
you know, if you're someone of any kind
of sensitivity, you are at risk of
experiencing depressive episodes after
reading them because not because they're
not true, but because they are. And you
go, God, am, you know, am I really that
shallow? You know, I do things because I
they feel good. I explain why I do them,
but deep down the evolutionary and
emotional reason I'm doing these things
is really to show off or to establish,
you know, some sort of oneupmanship or
status. It's kind of complicated. Do I
buy one piece of conspicuous consumption
as is argued by various people like Lord
Leard in the UK? Do I make my neighbors
less happy if I buy a newer, better car?
because what I've done is I've changed
their comparative frame and therefore my
pleasure comes at the expense of theirs.
>> Now, that's not I don't think that's
totally simple. I think if you were a
real car obsessive and your next door
neighbor bought a Ferrari, you'd
actually be delighted because you could
go out and talk about torque vectoring
and an adaptive air suspension or
whatever it may be, okay? or the, you
know, the normally aspirated V12 and
you'd probably be made happier by that
purchase. So, I don't think I don't
think it's absolutely simple. I think
Jay Leno and Jay Leno's garage makes him
one of the world's great philanthropists
because he goes and spends a fortune on
extremely rare cars and then shares his
passion with an audience of millions. If
you are a car enthusiast,
you know, it's an extraordinary case, by
the way, of translating money into
something which is both a selfish
pleasure and a generous pleasure. It's
complicated. But when you read these
books and you you realize that status is
effectively a kind of thing within us
which we can't turn off.
>> The currencies will change. The status
currencies change with fashion and time
and everything else. Um, you know, there
was a time where having a digital watch
was the, you know, the the highest
status thing. In my school, if you were
the first kid with an LED digital watch,
people were in awe of you. So, these
things change, but nonetheless, it's
probably innate. Would it be nice if we
had the power to completely disregard
the opinions of others? Well, yes and
no. I mean, I think such a society might
be better in some respects. I also think
it would be kind of atrocious because
people would kind of go shopping naked.
You know, is shame necessary? It was
book by Jennifer Jackwood actually, you
know. I mean, as a social species,
patently at some level, we're massively
calibrated to care about the, you know,
the repute of others. And that's why
some things need to be expensive because
then it's a costly signal. It's
peacock's tail. It's a so the guy who
rescued the British sparkling wine
industry effectively did so by improving
quality by 10% 20% and then putting up
price by about 150%.
>> Cuz price is the same
>> because in the sparkling in the
champagne business it doesn't matter how
good the drink is if people think you've
bought it for $8.95 it's not doing the
job it's supposed to do which is to
signal generosity to signal hospitality
or to mark a special occasion you know.
Oh, I see you've taken out the good
stuff because it's my birthday. And
that's pot I mean, you're a Canadian,
right? Pot latch was, I think, a
practice by the the tribes of the
Pacific Northwest. Was that right? Where
they destroyed possessions.
>> You know more of a Canadian history than
I do.
>> I I think I think it was tribes in the
Northwest who practiced this pot latch
thing where you destroyed things of
value as kind of uh you know, a
signaling mechanism.
>> That that is like ultimate signal. It's
like the rappers burning money on videos
or something.
>> Yeah, exactly. Yeah. Yeah. Signaling
things that they're probably not
intending to signal.
>> There is a serious question here, which
is can we take a an innate and immutable
human instinct and harness it for good
rather than for ill. And Jeffrey
Miller's example here is let's imagine
two parallel tribes. Bluntly put, in one
tribe, the men folk signal their
desiraability as mates uh by uh fighting
each other with axes.
>> That's a negative sum game. In the
neighboring tribe, they signal their
desiraability of mates by going hunting
and trying to bring home meat which they
then share with the rest of the tribe.
That's a positive sum game. So there is
this really complicated question which
is undoubtedly human pursuit of status
has both positive and negative
externalities depending on the currency
you choose to signal and also it's not
totally
it's not totally easy to say whether
it's negative or positive. I mean,
>> it probably drives a lot of human
behavior which drives ambition, which
drives progress, which drives
>> I mean, if we genuinely didn't care,
okay, if we had no shame, uh, you're
absolutely right. I mean, no one, you
know, I'm sure, by the way, I think also
a lot of valuable goods are affordable
now by everybody because they started as
luxury goods.
>> Yes.
>> So, I always mention this because it's
such a silly boast. My grandparents were
the fourth family in Wales to own a
dishwasher and it cost about hundred and
something pounds at a time when their
house which was a very nice house cost
them £4,000.
>> That dishwasher probably works better
than a modern one too by the way.
>> It's still working. They bought it in
something like that.
>> Why are they 4hour cycles now?
>> And it's like yeah ready Tuesday week.
Come on. You know
>> I have one of these It's interesting
just as a funny aside. I have one of
these dryers from the 80s in my house.
>> It came with the house and the
>> It dries the clothes in the back.
>> The repair man is like, "It's going to
be just as expensive to fix this as it
would be to buy a new one. I'll just
assume." I was like, "No, no, fix this
one." And he's like, "Why?" I was like,
"Tries the clothes in 30 minutes."
>> I'm going to make an unusual foray into
environmental responsibility here. Uh
folks, everybody listening, do if if
there's a do simple thing you can do,
two things. put on your appliances at
times when there is an abundance of
clean electricity. You don't have to
change what you do. You just have to
change when you do it. Secondly, if
you've got a dryer that doesn't have a
heat pump, get a dryer with a heat pump.
>> Yeah.
>> Because Yep. It's slow. I'm going to
acknowledge that. It's not as fast as an
oldfashioned dryer. However, the energy
efficiency of a dryer with a heat pump.
Or better still, Americans, if you live
in Arizona, dry your clothes outside.
Because this is something that's
slightly beusing because in Britain we
didn't have the social stigma of hanging
clothes up to dry to the same extent.
Now we do now. Nobody would hold hang
clothes up. But that's just a social
stigma. Now in Britain, fairness, we got
a fairly climate. You're Canadian. Okay.
There plenty of times of the year where
your underpants can be hanging there for
three months and they wouldn't not they
might freeze but they wouldn't
noticeably dry. But I do find it
slightly weird in the US where if you're
somewhere like Arizona, you could
literally hang them up for I I was in Fa
Ventura in an island in the Canaries.
And well, the amusing thing was you
literally they had a washing machine but
no dryer. You put it up on the line
about 40 minutes later it was ready to
wear.
>> So how would you market that to people?
How would you change the
>> change the behavior so that it's not
necessary? Now I understand that people
don't want to put their underpants, you
know, private things. I suspect that a
lot of it is those weird housing
associations already have rules that say
you can't do it and then bit by bit the
social norm spreads.
>> Those American housing associations
basically like living in a Nazi regime,
isn't it? As far as I can see, you know,
it's like those co-op apartments in New
York which are you I mean in London we
never tolerate that degree of kind of uh
intrusion before we're allowed to move
into a property. The interesting thing
about the co-op apartments in
particular, from what I understand, I
don't understand everything, so I may be
speaking a bit about something I don't
know, is the degree to which all people
play it.
>> Yes.
>> Whether you're uh sort of like a student
just graduating or you're a billionaire,
you're all sort of like playing this
this game uh in the co-op housing. But
>> no, no, it is completely a game. And
apparently they can demand information
which the IRS can't demand. I mean, it
is, you know, it is absolutely bizarre.
you have a co-op board which will uh you
know in occasion kick people out as
well. But what probably happens is that
once this is very similar by the way
with the necessity of children playing
outside
which is once the behavior drops below a
certain threshold
you have an inflection point. Mhm.
>> So my my parents couldn't believe this
when I when I was 20 25 and I told them
that when I was 11 I used to cycle 11
miles to the nearest town to see my
grandmother on my own at the age of 11
and then when I told them which they did
know I used to at the age of sort of 11
climb up onto the apex of the roof and
just wander around on the roof 30t up.
>> Yes.
>> My parents were a gasast that they'd
ever allowed it to happen. But if most
people did that
>> at the time it was normal.
>> It was completely normal. Yeah,
>> you'll be locked up today. My parents
would have been locked up for sever, you
know, several of the things which I was
allowed to do uh when I was young. Now,
what happens, I think, is that you reach
a a threshold or a tipping point where
in my childhood, let's say someone had
abducted me or I'd been hit by a car,
[clears throat]
okay? And I'll I'll give the exact year
1974,75,76,
that kind of era. If I'd been hit by a
car cycling to Mammoth or I'd been
abducted by a pedophile, uh, okay, my
parents would have been described as
unlucky.
>> You get past a threshold where that
behavior becomes weird and now my
parents will be held as irresponsible
and would be blamed.
>> Yeah,
>> I don't think it occurred to them. I
was, funnily enough, hit by a car. It
was my fault, be honest. I failed to
signal before maneuvering. I was hit by
a car. Nobody suggested it was my
parents fault for allowing me to cycle
around the place. that was just a normal
thing you did and then you get these
weird I've got a few theories um for
example what are the things that are
products of social norms where you can
suddenly hit a threshold tattoos among
the middle class would have been an
interesting thing in Britain is this
true in Canada as well so perfectly
middle-class people now have body art
and it's normalized it would have been
deeply weird in any middle class millier
to see someone with a to uh in the 1970s
or 1960s.
>> It's just normal. I mean, like everybody
>> No, no, no. I know. But I mean, this you
you got to be you got to be 59 to notice
this stuff. A lot of it happens over
quite a long time. Fresh.
>> It's been a slow.
>> I've got a theory that all British men
would wear shorts all the time if it
weren't for social pressure.
>> I also think for example, okay, here's
an interesting one. I don't know if
you're into paranal sunning. Are you?
>> What is this? It's a Buddhist practice
where you basically expose your
paranneeium to direct sunlight. Um I
think that a fairly large proportion of
the population are
naturists to an extent by which I don't
mean wandering around the streets with
their schlongs out. But I mean that on a
beach in a field in sunny weather in you
know in some sort of privacy they would
like to wander around with no clothes on
because it's good for you. It exposes
your whole body to sunlight. You get a
lot of vitamin D. You know, it's
generally healthful. And my argument
about sunbathing is well, you know,
evolution made it pretty enjoyable,
maybe it's not all bad. And there are
some schools of thought in dermatology
which made a case that actually weirdly
although it in enhances the risk of skin
cancer, it improves cardiovascular
health. So there was a study actually
among Swedes where there was a higher
instance of skin cancer among Swedish
sunbed addicts but they actually had a
higher life expectancy which they didn't
expect.
>> So quite often you see what we do is we
measure the narrow effect of a behavior
but not the broader effect. Quite
interesting in terms of
>> you know how we might get things wrong.
By the way, I wouldn't do it on a beach
as there were children present and then
you know, but if you go to if you go to
parts of the of Europe, particularly
Germans will just wander around naked.
Now, I think at some level if they're no
children. Now, in the United States,
that would be perceived in a completely
different way. So, quite a lot of these
things are arbitrary. They're just in
other words, you know, if doing
something makes you weird, there is a
point at which you reach a threshold,
vegetarianism, veganism, etc., where it
where it goes from being weird to
mainstream. So, it's what I'm saying is
it's not an even process,
>> right?
>> And sometimes you never get to the
threshold.
>> I I see what you're saying. I know we're
coming up to time here. I want to get to
a couple questions. What are the rules
of good copy? If I asked you to teach me
how to write good copy, how would you do
that? I think a large part of it comes
down to, you know, Michael Pollani
and his idea of a tacit skill, which is
we know more than we can tell. There are
some generally good rules, which is
write conversationally, much more
conversationally than people think they
should write because everybody thinks
they have to write a a and actually I'll
give you two examples of this. David
Oglevie, all his books are incredibly
readable because I think he was a
copywriter first and an author second.
His pro style is very good and he also
adopts a clever trick which I've stolen
and which uh a few other people is that
he writes extremely plainly for the most
part but will throw in the odd
cescoilian long word just to remind the
reader that he you know you're not an
idiot. You know it's almost there to
flatter the reader as much as it is to
flatter the writer. Conan Doyle, I was
talking to Rick Rubin about this. He and
I both grew up on those Sherlock Holmes
short stories which are not only models
of thinking and deduction and uh you
know and a fantastic lesson for uh
mental gymnastics. I think they're also
the Kingsley Amos believed this that
he's one of the greatest pros writers in
the English language because bear in
mind a lot of that stuff's written in
1880. You read a lot of stuff that's
written in 1880 does that
what's that mean? Oh god, hold on. I'll
have to go back to page 27 to work out
how who on earth Mr. Homer Angel is or
uh Miss Miss Mary missed something
sudden, doesn't there, Marlin? At no
point in reading a Sherlock Holmes short
story have I ever had to go back a page
to work out how who somebody is. Yeah.
>> In terms of just absolutely brilliant
clarity, uh those are astonishing. But
in terms of persuasion,
uh there are various things. So you use
generally verbs of movement. You you use
verbs in preference to adjectives and
adjectives in preference to adverbs. I
think you tend to use Anglo-Saxon words
rather than the romance words for the
most part without being silly about it.
You convert a feature into a benefit.
There's also an element where sometimes
all you need to do is tell people a
fact. Now I don't know any evidence
about this and I'd like to know it and I
asked this question which is of the
people who are antiaxers during co was
there a difference between the people
who are basically happy with the idea of
a vaccine and the people who weren't
partly driven by whether you knew that
vaccination dated back to the 18th
century and smallox. In other words it
was a 250y old medical practice
>> or whether you thought it was some weird
new fangle thing that you couldn't
possibly trust. I don't know. But
sometimes, do you ever watch Press Telw
Walker on YouTube? You know those
mathematical puzzles, geometry puzzles?
I really recommend them because weirdly
I find myself on YouTube watching people
solve mathematical equations for fun,
which I never thought I'd do. But Fresh
Telw Walker and I can't remember what
it's called something like something
decision or something. Anyway, um it's
great great little YouTube channel. It's
not that little. a huge following and
sometimes there's a geometry puzzle
which looks completely impossible to
solve until you just draw one extra line
at which point the solution becomes
obvious. And so sometimes in marketing
all you've got to do is tell people a
fact. It's not always about persuasion.
It's not always about getting people
it's simply putting people in a you know
state of knowledge or belief or
conviction that this thing can make a
difference to their lives. And by the
way, you're not you're almost always up
against a problem, which is that the two
human default modes of do what everybody
else does and do what I've done before
for obvious reasons. You know, what
you've done before and what everybody
else always does is not necessarily
optimal, but it's much less likely to be
catastrophic than trying something new
that nobody else ever does. You know, so
we're kind of herd species and we're
kind of habitual species. So in the
marketing of something which is
genuinely new you know your the Tesla
the the electric car there is a degree
of extreme anxiety which you don't
encounter when you repeat buy or when
you buy the brand leader
>> there's like a resistance you have to
overcome
>> you have to yeah you have to overcome it
because just as a camera has a default
mode the human default mode is do what I
did before do what everybody else does I
feel comfortable doing that very very
rational default mode there's Nothing
silly about that in terms of if you
think about it our evolutionary um brain
architecture those two things make a lot
of sense but um it does mean and
something I only realized about a year
ago 35 years after I started working in
the business is that as a consequence of
that big innovative new ideas don't
require less marketing they require more
because you're asking people to at the
initial stages you're asking someone to
do something that nobody else has done
>> and you're asking them to do something
they haven't done before both of which
create a kind of disqu
and so providing people with conviction
and reassurance quite often I suspect by
the way in the early stages of a
technology that happens one to one that
you know it was my brother who's he's an
astrophysicist so he knows all the
bloody maths about kilowatt hours and
stuff so my brother provided me with the
reassurance to buy my first electric car
I don't think if he hadn't bought an
electric car I've now had Three, would I
have bought an electric car? No,
>> probably not.
>> Probably not.
>> Yeah.
>> Uh, it will be my brother who persuades
me to get solar panels or a heat pump or
something of that kind. But big ideas
don't require the the classic geek idea
is our idea is so good it will sell
itself.
>> A re since your fellow Canadian Stuart
Butterfield, isn't it? Who founded um
Slack? Yeah. Is that right?
>> Yeah. Uh he says the only real measure
of innovation is behavioral change. that
the only real measure of whether an
innovation is significant is whether it
h it both in first order and second
order ways changes the way people
behave. Now an interesting question is
is AI at that point yet? And my second
question is the lesson of all tech is
that loads and loads of geeks compete
through for technological numerical
superiority by some measure or other.
And then someone else comes along with a
cute user interface and makes all the
money. It's basically Steve Jobs.
>> Yeah.
>> Nobody's done that yet for AI. Now maybe
this weird thing that Johnny Iv is
concocting which is some sort of weird
pendant which talks to your mobile
phone. Maybe that's what it is.
>> There was this thing that sort of
relates to that which was Bill Gates had
this saying. He's like the best and you
know I have friends living this now. The
best technology doesn't win.
>> That's a very engineering point of view
because you're judging technology by its
um engineering qualities rather than its
uh human appeal.
>> Oh that's an interesting reframing.
>> So uh there are there are people in
every field like in the camera world
there are people called measure baiters.
They're they're denigrated as measure
baiters because they're obsessed with
the numerical qualities of the camera.
>> Yeah.
>> You know, you focal lengths and all that
stuff and they don't take very good
photographs.
>> Yes.
>> And um saying that the best I mean
undoubtedly by the way I mean you know
Betamax is the famous example where they
failed to capture network effects and in
a world where there are network effects.
Yeah. By the way, the best technology
probably often doesn't win. I think
that's probably fair. Everybody was
competing to make a slightly faster IBM
compatible PC, but they were all gray
and beige. Now, nobody in the tech world
would go, "The slight problem with this
PC isn't the fact that the clock speed
or the processing power or the RAM is
insufficient. The problem is if I put
this device in any room of my house, it
turns that room into an office."
>> Yeah. If you put an IBM PC, a gray IBM
PC in any room in your house, including
the you might as well put a
photocopier and a bloody filing cabinet
in the room, right? Whereas when Jolly
IV comes along and has that lickable,
the iMac,
>> the you can actually put that in any
room of the house and it it it actually
enhances passion statement.
>> It's fantastic. It's, you know, it's an
adornment.
And so their failure to understand the
wider context within which they were
operating which is the job of marketing
is exactly the reason nerds hate
marketing because they think in a
perfect world nerd metrics win out. But
the consumer is much more bothered by
the fact that when you get to the bottom
of the iPhone scroll, it gives the
little bounce, you know, and we you
could, if we're to be absolutely honest,
you could ridicule um uh you know, Ives
and Jobs over their obsession with uh
you know, bezels and chfers and things
like that. But of course, multiply that
by a billion owners using the thing a
100 times a day. Okay, that's a 100red
billion encounters and that probably
matters a lot more in fact than you know
by the way I mean I lost faith in Apple
when they canled the car. How
interesting.
>> Because I thought you they had the brand
power to create for places like New York
and London a form of microtransport
which was really really cool, really
really efficient. You know the brand
power you have, you see, you know, if
you're Apple or Ford or whatever, people
will buy a weird product from you much
more readily than they will from Alfa
Romeo,
>> right?
>> Because they go, well, if Ford's doing
it, it, you know, it must be okay. So,
one of the gifts of having a strong
brand is your power to really disrupt
and create new categories,
you know, new categories of transit, for
example, which we need. You know, don't
get me wrong, I'm going to, you know,
I'm going to off 600 horsepower
electric car, but when I go into London,
I want a Microlino or an itty bitty
little thing because that's appropriate
to the task. And my argument is that
they could have done something there.
They could have used their power to do
something and and you know, the finance
people killed it really. It was what was
it called? project something or other
never remember but but no now they're
just changing the shape of things and
making the camera a bit better come on
guys produce by the way do you want a
good tip okay I tend to buy and this
will actually apply to electric cars as
well always good reason to buy Korean
stuff do you know why
>> because they're going to do that anyway
the Koreans are going to make fantastic
tech and fantastic cars regardless of
the profit motive do you know why to
wind up the Japanese
so they've got two motivations Okay.
Other people are just trying to make
money. Deep down. Do you know do you
know why the largest Episcopalian church
in the world is in Soul?
>> No.
>> Right. This is really fascinating. I'm
going to Soul for the first time. I've
never been. But the last four presidents
of Korea have been variously like
Catholic, Presbyterian.
Now before um before the Japanese
invasion, Christianity was a tiny niche
missionary religion in Korea. Uh when
the Japanese invaded um uh the tiny
Christian population refused to
acknowledge the divinity of the emperor
and some of them were martyed for
refusing to effectively uh pay due
respect to the divinity of the Japanese
emperor and therefore it became the
patriotic religion because it was seen
as a deeply patriotic entity. So I've
got a hunch that you you know deep down
you know if you go buy a Hyundai or a
Genesis or something like that there's a
dual motivation here. Let's make a bit
of money and uh but that's that's purely
so similarly if you want to look for
anthropological reasons to buy um an
awful lot of German businesses are
driven by sibling rivalry.
>> So Puma versus Adidas Aldi North versus
Aldi South. There's a whole weird family
rift in the German car industry which is
too complicated for me to understand
about Porsche and the family who own
Pinchit. There are a whole load of
families which are kind of weird waring
families and sometimes the family
business has a motivation which actually
>> the consumer is the winner.
>> But the consumer is the is exactly the
winner in in all this. Um but but going
back to that family business thing that
you know undoubtedly if you can harness
other motivations alongside the profit
motives most people working for a
company unless you've bought them off
with massive stock options because
they're in the senior management most
people don't get up in the morning to
enrich the share owners. No,
>> you know I don't get up you I don't get
up every morning I don't know what a big
shareholder is of my company. It's
probably like the state of Wisconsin DMV
pension fund. Well, for the best wish
will I don't wish them any ill will. Of
course, I don't get up in the morning
cuz I go, "Oh, I really worry about
those DMV people's pensions in
Wisconsin." I can worry about customers.
I can worry about colleagues. That's a
natural human motivation to serve those
people. We always end with the same
question, which is what is success for
you?
>> Just expanding the adjacent possible.
That's a very pretentious article, but
push the pebble a bit further. That
that's it. I mean, you know, one of the
reasons I do a lot of this stickick
stuff is because the feedback I got was
every now and then someone comes up to
me and says, "I made a different
decision because of something you said.
Someone said to me, I bought my house
because of you." I thought they
might be about to hit me. We still hear
from people about our first podcast
every two or three months. Somebody
emails me and and says, you know,
because of that, oh, I love this. I
never heard of this person. looked them
up. And one thing I'm really clear on
and I we've made this mistake. All
creative people have made this mistake
which is to go no that rationality is
silly. What you need is creativity. No,
no. What you need is two strings to your
bow. Okay. This is a complimentary mode
of problem solving. It works best in
parallel with some rational or
quantitative or datadriven measures. But
the quantitative and datadriven measures
should not be allowed to crowd it out.
And so when I say the reason someone
bought a house because of me is I said
when you're looking for a house don't
optimize
because everybody will want that house.
Instead find something the house has
which most people won't like but you
don't care about next to a pub. Now I'm
not saying next to a rough pub. I don't
want to have fights outside my house.
But most people particularly older
people would hate the idea of being next
to a pub because they crap on about
noise and the beer garden and all that
stuff. I personally the noise of a pub a
good happy pub is music to me. I don't
get a sleep before midnight anyway so
it's not going to keep me awake. Railway
line personally it to me it's a bonus to
most people it's negative. Go and look
for those things where you can arbitrage
>> uh what's possible. That would be my
attitude. Now similarly if you've got a
problem to solve
>> don't purely define the problem in
psychologyfree terminology. Just as in
America you have a temperature and you
have a feels like temperature which is
by the way very very intelligent thing
because
what makes us feel hot is not just the
ambient temperature. It's a combination
of temperature, humidity, breeze and I
think there's one other factor when they
do the feels like temperature there's
something like temperature so many feet
above the ground that they factor in. Um
now when I'm going outside I'm not going
to do chemical experiments. I don't need
to know what the ambient temperature is.
I need to know will I feel hot and in
the same way I think there's something
really important here which is that do
not define an objective which is
designed to serve human beings without
considering psychological factors
because you might be able to solve your
problem very very cheaply and
efficiently by changing the psychology
not by changing the technology
>> and provided people are looking at both
with a reasonable amount of imagination
I'm not I'm not angry with a well bit.
I'm I'm only angry with accountants and
lawyers and economists, not because they
do what they do, but because they have
too much power doing it and they've
achieved a kind of monopoly over
decision-m which I don't think they have
a reasonable claim to.
>> That's a brilliant place to end this.
>> It is not a bad place to end though.
Fantastic.
>> Thank you very much. We're not going to
wait nine years before nine years before
we get back together. How often are you
in London?
>> Uh once or twice a year. Mhm.
>> Yeah.
>> Oh, we must meet up then. That would be
fantastic.
>> Definitely.